README.md, before:

# Projexlify - Project Management Web App
> Backend
## Deployment
- **Backend:** [https://projexlify-backend-1.onrender.com](https://projexlify-backend-1.onrender.com)
- **Frontend:** [https://projexlify.netlify.app/](https://projexlify.netlify.app/)

> Note: For local development, frontend runs on `http://localhost:5173` and backend on `http://localhost:5000`.

#### This repository contains the **Backend of the Projexlify - Project Management Web App**, built with **Node.js, Express, and MySQL**.
It provides REST APIs for projects, tasks, and authentication.
The frontend consumes these APIs to manage projects and tasks effectively.

## Tech Stack
- **Node.js** – Runtime environment
- **Express.js** – Web framework
- **Sequelize** - ORM for interacting with the MySQL database
- **MySQL** – Relational database
- **JWT** – Authentication & authorization
- **bcrypt** – Password hashing
- **dotenv** – Environment variables
- **cookie-parser** – HTTP-only cookies
- **Brevo** - Email notifications (production, limited usage)
- **nodemailer** – Email notifications (for development)

## Features
- **User authentication** – register, login, JWT-based authentication
- **Role-based authorization** – single login with user/admin access levels
- **Project management** – create, view, update, soft delete, permanently delete, and restore projects
- **Task management** – add, update, delete tasks
- **Route protection** – secured with JWT and HTTP-only cookies
- **Secure password storage** – hashed using bcrypt
- **MySQL integration** – database management with mysql2
- **Admin bypass (privileges)** – admin can access and manage all projects, tasks, and logs



## Installation & Setup for local (development)
> **Important:** For the backend to be fully functional, you must **run the frontend after running this.** 

>Frontend repository: **link**

>Default frontend URL: `http://localhost:5173`

### 1. Clone this repository 
> git clone **https://github.com/KarlAngeloFlores/Projexlify-backend.git**

### 2. Install dependencies

```
npm install
```

### 3. Create MySQL Tables
### MySQL TABLES
## Execute all of this on your MySQL Platform
```
CREATE TABLE users (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    email VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL UNIQUE,
    password VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    role VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    username VARCHAR(100) UNIQUE,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    updated_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);

-- =====================
-- PROJECTS TABLE
-- =====================
CREATE TABLE projects (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    description TEXT,
    status ENUM('planned','active','completed','deleted') NOT NULL DEFAULT 'planned',
    user_id INT NOT NULL,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    updated_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- =====================
-- TASKS TABLE
-- =====================
CREATE TABLE tasks (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    project_id INT NOT NULL,
    name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    status ENUM('todo','in_progress','done','deleted') NOT NULL DEFAULT 'todo',
    position INT NOT NULL DEFAULT 0, 
    contents TEXT,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    updated_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    FOREIGN KEY (project_id) REFERENCES projects(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- =====================
-- TASK LOGS TABLE
-- =====================
CREATE TABLE task_logs (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    task_id INT NOT NULL,
    project_id INT NULL,
    old_status ENUM('todo','in_progress','done','deleted'),
    new_status ENUM('todo','in_progress','done','deleted'),
    remark TEXT,
    updated_by INT NULL,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    FOREIGN KEY (task_id) REFERENCES tasks(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
    FOREIGN KEY (updated_by) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE SET NULL,
    FOREIGN KEY (project_id) REFERENCES projects(id) ON DELETE SET NULL
);

-- =====================
-- PROJECT LOGS TABLE
-- =====================
CREATE TABLE project_logs (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    project_id INT NOT NULL,
    old_status ENUM('planned','active','completed','deleted'),
    new_status ENUM('planned','active','completed','deleted'),
    remark TEXT,
    updated_by INT NULL,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    FOREIGN KEY (project_id) REFERENCES projects(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
    FOREIGN KEY (updated_by) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE SET NULL
);

-- =====================
-- PROJECTS ACCESS TABLE
-- =====================
CREATE TABLE projects_access (
    user_id INT NOT NULL,
    project_id INT NOT NULL,
    role VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'read',
    PRIMARY KEY (user_id, project_id),
    FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
    FOREIGN KEY (project_id) REFERENCES projects(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- =====================
-- VERIFICATION CODE TABLE
-- =====================
CREATE TABLE verification_codes (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    user_id INT NULL,
    email VARCHAR(255) NULL,
    code_hash VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    purpose ENUM('account_verification', 'password_reset') NOT NULL,
    expires_at DATETIME NOT NULL,
    FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

```

### 4. Configure environment variables
#### Create a **.env** file in the project root:
```
# PORT
PORT=your_backend_port

# Database
DB_PORT=your_db_port
DB_USER=your_db_user
DB_PASS=your_password
DB_NAME=project_management

# JWT
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret

# Email (development: nodemailer)
EMAIL_DEV=your_dev_email
EMAIL_PASS_DEV=your_dev_email_password

# Email and Configurations (production: Brevo)
EMAIL=your_verified_email
BREVO_PORT=your_brevo_port
BREVO_PASS=your_brevo_pass
BREVO_HOST=your_smtp_host
BREVO_EMAIL=your_verified_brevo_login_email

# Client URL (frontend)
CLIENT_URL=http://localhost:5173

```

### 5. Configure cookies.js in utils folder properly for authentication.
``` 
Update accessTokenCookie return value in the utils folder to accessTokenCookieDev() when running locally.
```

### 6. Run development server
#### Type this on terminal on backend directory  
```
npm run dev
```


## 📌 API Endpoints  
### 🔐 Authentication
### Example 
> http://localhost:5000/auth/login

| Method | Endpoint         | Description                | Authentication Required | Params/Body/Query | 
|--------|------------------|----------------------------|---------------|-------------|
| POST   | `/api/auth/login`    | Login & get JWT token    | ❌ | **Body:** `{ email, password }` |
| GET    | `/api/auth/me`       | To check if the user is authenticated | ✅ | None |
| GET    | `/api/auth/get_member`       | Get specific user info  | ✅ | None |
| POST   | `/api/auth/register` | Pre-register new user        | ❌ | **Body:** `{ username, email, password }` |
| POST    | `/api/auth/verify`       | verify and register new user | ❌ | **Body:** `{ token, password, code }` | 
| POST   | `/api/auth/logout` | Clear accessToken on Http Cookie         | ✅ | None |
| PATCH   | `/api/auth/change_password`    | Change user password   | ✅ | **Body:** `{ oldPassword, newPassword }` |
| POST    | `/api/auth/forgot_password`       | Sends verification code for changing password | ❌ | **Body:** `{ email }` |
| POST   | `/api/auth/verify_reset_password` | Verify sent code from email        | ❌ | **Body:** `{ email, code }` |
| PATCH   | `/api/auth/confirm_password`    | Update the user's password to new password    | ❌ | **Body:** `{ email, newPassword, confirmPassword }` |
| POST    | `/api/auth/resend_code`       | Reusable for sending verification code for registration and forgot password | ❌ | **Body:** `{ email, purpose }` |


### 📂 Projects
### Example 
> http://localhost:5000/project/get_all_project

| Method | Endpoint                      | Description               | Authentication Required | Authorization (Project Access) | Params/Body/Query |
|--------|-------------------------------|---------------------------|----------------|--------------------------------|-------------------|
| GET    | `/api/project/get_all_project` | Get all projects by user  | ✅  | Any logged-in user | None |
| GET    | `/api/project/get_project` | Get one project  | ✅  | owner (only their own projects) | **Query:** `{ projectId }` |
| POST   | `/api/project/create_project`                 | Create new project        | ✅ | Any logged-in user | **Body:** `{ name, description }` |
| PATCH    | `/api/project/patch_project`             | Update Project with remark or none       | ✅  | owner | **Body:** `{ projectId, name, description, newStatus, remark }` | 
| DELETE | `/api/project/delete_project`             | Soft delete project            | ✅             | owner | **Body** `{ projectId, remark }` |


### ✅ Tasks
### Example 
> http://localhost:5000/project/get_all_task

| Method | Endpoint                   | Description               | Auth Required | Authorization (project access) | Params/Body/Query |
|--------|----------------------------|---------------------------|---------------|--------------------------------| ------------------|
| GET    | `/api/project/get_all_task`  | Get all tasks within a project   | ✅ | owner | **Query:** `{ projectId }` |
| GET   | `/api/project/get_task`  | Get one task from a project           | ✅ | owner | **Query:** `{ taskId }`
| POST    | `/api/project/create_task`           |  Create new task within a project              | ✅ | owner | **Body:** `{ projectId, name, status, contents }` |
| PATCH | `/api/project/patch_task`           | Update task within a project               | ✅ | owner | **Body** `{ projectId, taskId, name, contents, newStatus, remark }` |
| PATCH | `/api/project/update_reorder`           | Update task status only reorder position for drag-and-drop feature               | ✅ | owner | **Body:** `{ tasks, taskId, newStatus, projectId }` |
DELETE | `/api/project/delete_task`           | Soft delete task               | ✅ | owner | **Body:** `{ taskId, projectId, remark }` |

### 📖 History Logs
### Example 
> http://localhost:5000/log/get_projects_log

| Method | Endpoint                   | Description               | Auth Required | Authorization (project access) | Params/Body/Query |
|--------|----------------------------|---------------------------|---------------|--------------------------------| ------------------|
| GET    | `/api/log/get_projects_log`| Get all the logs of a project itself (not task) | ✅ | owner  | **Body:** `{ projectId }` |
| GET    | `/api/log/get_tasks_log`| Get all the logs of all tasks of a specific project | ✅ | owner  | **Body:** `{ projectId }` |

### 👩🏻‍💻 Admin 
#### Admins have extended privileges:

- Can bypass project/task ownership checks
- Can view and manage all users, projects, tasks, and logs
### Example
> http://localhost:5000/admin/get_users

| Method | Endpoint                   | Description               | Auth Required | Authorization (check Admin) | Params/Body/Query |
|--------|----------------------------|---------------------------|---------------|--------------------------------| ------------------|
| GET    | `/api/admin/get_all_projects`| Get all the projects of all users | ✅ | Admin only  | None |
| PATCH    | `/api/admin/restore_project`| Restore soft deleted project to its old status | ✅ | Admin only  | **Query:** `{ id }` |
| DELETE    | `/api/admin/delete_project`| Delete permanently the project | ✅ | Admin only  | **Query:** `{ id }` |
| GET    | `/api/admin/get_users`| Get all the users | ✅ | Admin only  | None |
| DELETE    | `/api/admin/delete_user`| Delete permanently the user | ✅ | Admin only  | **Query:** `{ id }` |
| PATCH    | `/api/admin/patch_user`| Update only the username of the user | ✅ | Admin only | **Body:** `{ id, username }` |

### 🔑 (Incomplete scalable functionality)
### Example 
> http://localhost:5000/access/get_shared

| Method | Endpoint                   | Description               | Auth Required | Authorization (project access) | Params/Body/Query |
|--------|----------------------------|---------------------------|---------------|--------------------------------| ------------------|
| POST    | `/api/access/give_access`| Give project access to chosen users **(write, read)** | ✅ | None  | **Body:** `{ email, projectId, role }` |
| PATCH    | `/api/access/patch_access`| Change project access of the chosen user **(write, read)** | ✅ | None | **Body:** `{ userId, projectId, role }` |
| DELETE    | `/api/access/delete_access`| Remove all access of the chosen user | ✅ | None  | **Body:** `{ userId, projectId }` |

## Incomplete functionalities (other scalable features that can be added with the project)
### Real-time collaboration within a project
Requirements
- Socket.IO – Real-time updates for tasks/projects
- Broadcasting events – Changes made by one user reflected instantly for others

### Advanced Project Sharing & Roles
Requirements
- Invitation notification via Email.
- Define roles: (Owner, Write, Read)

### Refresh Token (Better Security)
Requirements
- Add refresh tokens for extended sessions of accessToken
- Handle token expiry gracefully

Commit message:

updated readme. Added troubleshooting if any issues appear

README.md, after:

# Projexlify - Project Management Web App
> Backend
## Deployment
- **Backend:** [https://projexlify-backend-1.onrender.com](https://projexlify-backend-1.onrender.com)
- **Frontend:** [https://projexlify.netlify.app/](https://projexlify.netlify.app/)

> Note: For local development, frontend runs on `http://localhost:5173` and backend on `http://localhost:5000`.

#### This repository contains the **Backend of the Projexlify - Project Management Web App**, built with **Node.js, Express, and MySQL**.
It provides REST APIs for projects, tasks, and authentication.
The frontend consumes these APIs to manage projects and tasks effectively.

## Tech Stack
- **Node.js** – Runtime environment
- **Express.js** – Web framework
- **Sequelize** - ORM for interacting with the MySQL database
- **MySQL** – Relational database
- **JWT** – Authentication & authorization
- **bcrypt** – Password hashing
- **dotenv** – Environment variables
- **cookie-parser** – HTTP-only cookies
- **Brevo** - Email notifications (production, limited usage)
- **nodemailer** – Email notifications (for development)

## Features
- **User authentication** – register, login, JWT-based authentication
- **Role-based authorization** – single login with user/admin access levels
- **Project management** – create, view, update, soft delete, permanently delete, and restore projects
- **Task management** – add, update, delete tasks
- **Route protection** – secured with JWT and HTTP-only cookies
- **Secure password storage** – hashed using bcrypt
- **MySQL integration** – database management with mysql2
- **Admin bypass (privileges)** – admin can access and manage all projects, tasks, and logs



## Installation & Setup for local (development)
> **Important:** For the backend to be fully functional, you must **run the frontend after running this.** 

>Frontend repository: **link**

>Default frontend URL: `http://localhost:5173`

### 1. Clone this repository 
> git clone **https://github.com/KarlAngeloFlores/Projexlify-backend.git**

### 2. Install dependencies

```
npm install
```

### 3. Create MySQL Tables
### MySQL TABLES
## Execute all of this on your MySQL Platform
```
CREATE TABLE users (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    email VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL UNIQUE,
    password VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    role VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    username VARCHAR(100) UNIQUE,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    updated_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);

-- =====================
-- PROJECTS TABLE
-- =====================
CREATE TABLE projects (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    description TEXT,
    status ENUM('planned','active','completed','deleted') NOT NULL DEFAULT 'planned',
    user_id INT NOT NULL,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    updated_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- =====================
-- TASKS TABLE
-- =====================
CREATE TABLE tasks (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    project_id INT NOT NULL,
    name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    status ENUM('todo','in_progress','done','deleted') NOT NULL DEFAULT 'todo',
    position INT NOT NULL DEFAULT 0, 
    contents TEXT,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    updated_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    FOREIGN KEY (project_id) REFERENCES projects(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- =====================
-- TASK LOGS TABLE
-- =====================
CREATE TABLE task_logs (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    task_id INT NOT NULL,
    project_id INT NULL,
    old_status ENUM('todo','in_progress','done','deleted'),
    new_status ENUM('todo','in_progress','done','deleted'),
    remark TEXT,
    updated_by INT NULL,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    FOREIGN KEY (task_id) REFERENCES tasks(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
    FOREIGN KEY (updated_by) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE SET NULL,
    FOREIGN KEY (project_id) REFERENCES projects(id) ON DELETE SET NULL
);

-- =====================
-- PROJECT LOGS TABLE
-- =====================
CREATE TABLE project_logs (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    project_id INT NOT NULL,
    old_status ENUM('planned','active','completed','deleted'),
    new_status ENUM('planned','active','completed','deleted'),
    remark TEXT,
    updated_by INT NULL,
    created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    FOREIGN KEY (project_id) REFERENCES projects(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
    FOREIGN KEY (updated_by) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE SET NULL
);

-- =====================
-- PROJECTS ACCESS TABLE
-- =====================
CREATE TABLE projects_access (
    user_id INT NOT NULL,
    project_id INT NOT NULL,
    role VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL DEFAULT 'read',
    PRIMARY KEY (user_id, project_id),
    FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
    FOREIGN KEY (project_id) REFERENCES projects(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- =====================
-- VERIFICATION CODE TABLE
-- =====================
CREATE TABLE verification_codes (
    id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
    user_id INT NULL,
    email VARCHAR(255) NULL,
    code_hash VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    purpose ENUM('account_verification', 'password_reset') NOT NULL,
    expires_at DATETIME NOT NULL,
    FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

```

### 4. Configure environment variables
#### Create a **.env** file in the project root:
```
# PORT
PORT=your_backend_port

# Database
DB_PORT=your_db_port
DB_USER=your_db_user
DB_PASS=your_password
DB_NAME=project_management

# JWT
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret

# Email (development: nodemailer)
EMAIL_DEV=your_dev_email
EMAIL_PASS_DEV=your_dev_email_password

# Email and Configurations (production: Brevo)
EMAIL=your_verified_email
BREVO_PORT=your_brevo_port
BREVO_PASS=your_brevo_pass
BREVO_HOST=your_smtp_host
BREVO_EMAIL=your_verified_brevo_login_email

# Client URL (frontend)
CLIENT_URL=http://localhost:5173

```

### 5. Configure cookies.js in utils folder properly for authentication.
``` 
Update accessTokenCookie return value in the utils folder to accessTokenCookieDev() when running locally.
```

### 6. Run development server
#### Type this on terminal on backend directory  
```
npm run dev
```

#### 7. Troubleshooting

**If authentication or login fails**

- Try using a different browser.

- On iPhone/iOS Safari, go to Settings → Safari → Privacy & Security and disable “Prevent Cross-Site Tracking”. This setting can block cookies needed for authentication.

- Some browsers (like Edge in private mode) block third-party cookies by default. Test in a normal browser session (Chrome/Firefox recommended).

- Make sure you updated accessTokenCookie to accessTokenCookieDev() in utils/cookies.js when running locally.


## 📌 API Endpoints  
### 🔐 Authentication
### Example 
> http://localhost:5000/auth/login

| Method | Endpoint         | Description                | Authentication Required | Params/Body/Query | 
|--------|------------------|----------------------------|---------------|-------------|
| POST   | `/api/auth/login`    | Login & get JWT token    | ❌ | **Body:** `{ email, password }` |
| GET    | `/api/auth/me`       | To check if the user is authenticated | ✅ | None |
| GET    | `/api/auth/get_member`       | Get specific user info  | ✅ | None |
| POST   | `/api/auth/register` | Pre-register new user        | ❌ | **Body:** `{ username, email, password }` |
| POST    | `/api/auth/verify`       | verify and register new user | ❌ | **Body:** `{ token, password, code }` | 
| POST   | `/api/auth/logout` | Clear accessToken on Http Cookie         | ✅ | None |
| PATCH   | `/api/auth/change_password`    | Change user password   | ✅ | **Body:** `{ oldPassword, newPassword }` |
| POST    | `/api/auth/forgot_password`       | Sends verification code for changing password | ❌ | **Body:** `{ email }` |
| POST   | `/api/auth/verify_reset_password` | Verify sent code from email        | ❌ | **Body:** `{ email, code }` |
| PATCH   | `/api/auth/confirm_password`    | Update the user's password to new password    | ❌ | **Body:** `{ email, newPassword, confirmPassword }` |
| POST    | `/api/auth/resend_code`       | Reusable for sending verification code for registration and forgot password | ❌ | **Body:** `{ email, purpose }` |


### 📂 Projects
### Example 
> http://localhost:5000/project/get_all_project

| Method | Endpoint                      | Description               | Authentication Required | Authorization (Project Access) | Params/Body/Query |
|--------|-------------------------------|---------------------------|----------------|--------------------------------|-------------------|
| GET    | `/api/project/get_all_project` | Get all projects by user  | ✅  | Any logged-in user | None |
| GET    | `/api/project/get_project` | Get one project  | ✅  | owner (only their own projects) | **Query:** `{ projectId }` |
| POST   | `/api/project/create_project`                 | Create new project        | ✅ | Any logged-in user | **Body:** `{ name, description }` |
| PATCH    | `/api/project/patch_project`             | Update Project with remark or none       | ✅  | owner | **Body:** `{ projectId, name, description, newStatus, remark }` | 
| DELETE | `/api/project/delete_project`             | Soft delete project            | ✅             | owner | **Body** `{ projectId, remark }` |


### ✅ Tasks
### Example 
> http://localhost:5000/project/get_all_task

| Method | Endpoint                   | Description               | Auth Required | Authorization (project access) | Params/Body/Query |
|--------|----------------------------|---------------------------|---------------|--------------------------------| ------------------|
| GET    | `/api/project/get_all_task`  | Get all tasks within a project   | ✅ | owner | **Query:** `{ projectId }` |
| GET   | `/api/project/get_task`  | Get one task from a project           | ✅ | owner | **Query:** `{ taskId }`
| POST    | `/api/project/create_task`           |  Create new task within a project              | ✅ | owner | **Body:** `{ projectId, name, status, contents }` |
| PATCH | `/api/project/patch_task`           | Update task within a project               | ✅ | owner | **Body** `{ projectId, taskId, name, contents, newStatus, remark }` |
| PATCH | `/api/project/update_reorder`           | Update task status only reorder position for drag-and-drop feature               | ✅ | owner | **Body:** `{ tasks, taskId, newStatus, projectId }` |
DELETE | `/api/project/delete_task`           | Soft delete task               | ✅ | owner | **Body:** `{ taskId, projectId, remark }` |

### 📖 History Logs
### Example 
> http://localhost:5000/log/get_projects_log

| Method | Endpoint                   | Description               | Auth Required | Authorization (project access) | Params/Body/Query |
|--------|----------------------------|---------------------------|---------------|--------------------------------| ------------------|
| GET    | `/api/log/get_projects_log`| Get all the logs of a project itself (not task) | ✅ | owner  | **Body:** `{ projectId }` |
| GET    | `/api/log/get_tasks_log`| Get all the logs of all tasks of a specific project | ✅ | owner  | **Body:** `{ projectId }` |

### 👩🏻‍💻 Admin 
#### Admins have extended privileges:

- Can bypass project/task ownership checks
- Can view and manage all users, projects, tasks, and logs
### Example
> http://localhost:5000/admin/get_users

| Method | Endpoint                   | Description               | Auth Required | Authorization (check Admin) | Params/Body/Query |
|--------|----------------------------|---------------------------|---------------|--------------------------------| ------------------|
| GET    | `/api/admin/get_all_projects`| Get all the projects of all users | ✅ | Admin only  | None |
| PATCH    | `/api/admin/restore_project`| Restore soft deleted project to its old status | ✅ | Admin only  | **Query:** `{ id }` |
| DELETE    | `/api/admin/delete_project`| Delete permanently the project | ✅ | Admin only  | **Query:** `{ id }` |
| GET    | `/api/admin/get_users`| Get all the users | ✅ | Admin only  | None |
| DELETE    | `/api/admin/delete_user`| Delete permanently the user | ✅ | Admin only  | **Query:** `{ id }` |
| PATCH    | `/api/admin/patch_user`| Update only the username of the user | ✅ | Admin only | **Body:** `{ id, username }` |

### 🔑 (Incomplete scalable functionality)
### Example 
> http://localhost:5000/access/get_shared

| Method | Endpoint                   | Description               | Auth Required | Authorization (project access) | Params/Body/Query |
|--------|----------------------------|---------------------------|---------------|--------------------------------| ------------------|
| POST    | `/api/access/give_access`| Give project access to chosen users **(write, read)** | ✅ | None  | **Body:** `{ email, projectId, role }` |
| PATCH    | `/api/access/patch_access`| Change project access of the chosen user **(write, read)** | ✅ | None | **Body:** `{ userId, projectId, role }` |
| DELETE    | `/api/access/delete_access`| Remove all access of the chosen user | ✅ | None  | **Body:** `{ userId, projectId }` |

## Incomplete functionalities (other scalable features that can be added with the project)
### Real-time collaboration within a project
Requirements
- Socket.IO – Real-time updates for tasks/projects
- Broadcasting events – Changes made by one user reflected instantly for others

### Advanced Project Sharing & Roles
Requirements
- Invitation notification via Email.
- Define roles: (Owner, Write, Read)

### Refresh Token (Better Security)
Requirements
- Add refresh tokens for extended sessions of accessToken
- Handle token expiry gracefully
